# Endpoint to generate VTT Data

This proof of concept Directus endpoint extension is designed to generate a WebVTT (VTT) string from footage and scene data stored in the Directus database. The generated VTT file can be used for displaying chapters or scenes in video players that support WebVTT captions.

Feel free to use this basic code as an inspiration for any other use cases of .vtt data, like generating subtitles.

If you have any ideas for improvement, let me know!

## How it works

I am currently using this endpoint to create chapters from data generated by a scene detection model.

```ts
generateChapterVtt(chapters: Scene[], framerate: number): string
```

This function takes an array of scenes (chapters) and the frame rate of the footage as input and generates a WebVTT string. Each scene is represented as a chapter in the VTT file.

```ts
convertFrameToTimecode(frameNumber: number, framerate: number): string
```

A utility function used internally to convert a frame number to a timecode string in the format MM:SS.SSS.

## How to use it

Clone the repository and run the build command `npm run build`. This will save the created `index.js` extension file to the dist folder. Move the file to the `extensions/endpoints/<name of the extension>` folder and restart directus.

As this is a proof of concept, the endpoint only assumes the existence of the `footage` and `scenes` data models with the following properties

```ts
type Scene = { 
    index: number; // a helper to keep track of the correct order of scenes
    footage_in: number; // the start_frame of the scene relative to the video (footage)
    footage_out: number // the end_frame of the scene relative to the video (footage)
};
type Footage = { 
    scenes: Scene[]; // a one-to-many relationship between footage and scenes
    file: { // the footage data model has a File field
        metadata: { // the Directus File object comes with an empty metadata json field
            frame_rate: number // the frame_rate, added to the directus file metadata field on creation
        } 
    } 
};
```

So to make it work with your code, you will probably need to edit the extension code and adapt it to your specific data models that you have defined in directus! If you don't do this, you will get an `Unauthorized` response from the server. See this [issue]("https://github.com/johind/directus-extension-generate-vtt/issues/2") for more information on it.

### Endpoint

The endpoint generates a VTT file for the scenes associated with a specific footage identified by its primary key (pk). The VTT file includes timecodes for each scene and is named chapters.vtt.

**Request:**

```txt
Method: GET
URL: /vtt/chapters/:pk
```

**Response:**

If successful, the response will include the generated VTT data with appropriate headers.

```vtt
WEBVTT

00:00.000 --> 00:01.600
Chapter 1

00:01.640 --> 00:04.680
Chapter 2

00:04.720 --> 00:06.240
Chapter 3

00:06.280 --> 00:08.600
Chapter 4

00:08.640 --> 00:11.200
Chapter 5

00:11.240 --> 00:12.640
Chapter 6
```

If there's an error, the response will include a 401 status code along with an error message.

## Directus Permissions

Access to this endpoint is restricted to authenticated users.

Users without the necessary permissions will receive a 403 Forbidden response.
